docs: How to use pre-commit-terraform image to run pre-commit in CI (#656)
antonbabenko/pre-commit-terraform: README.md

## Table of content

> * [Collection of git hooks for Terraform to be used with pre-commit framework](#collection-of-git-hooks-for-terraform-to-be-used-with-pre-commit-framework)

Reviewer: Ah, I get it, we never commit `.vscode` settings for extensions here...
Maybe that's should be done :thinking:

>   - [Sponsors](#sponsors)

Reviewer: Replace of `*` to `-` is not what is expected here, but not a big deal

Author: My IDE likes `-` :D - - last commit solved it.

> * [Collection of git hooks for Terraform to be used with pre-commit framework](#collection-of-git-hooks-for-terraform-to-be-used-with-pre-commit-framework)
>   * [Sponsors](#sponsors)
>   * [Table of content](#table-of-content)
>   * [How to install](#how-to-install)
>     * [1. Install dependencies](#1-install-dependencies)
>     * [2. Install the pre-commit hook globally](#2-install-the-pre-commit-hook-globally)
>     * [3. Add configs and hooks](#3-add-configs-and-hooks)
>     * [4. Run](#4-run)
>   * [Available Hooks](#available-hooks)
>   * [Hooks usage notes and examples](#hooks-usage-notes-and-examples)
>     * [Known limitations](#known-limitations)
>     * [All hooks: Usage of environment variables in `--args`](#all-hooks-usage-of-environment-variables-in---args)
>     * [All hooks: Set env vars inside hook at runtime](#all-hooks-set-env-vars-inside-hook-at-runtime)
>     * [All hooks: Disable color output](#all-hooks-disable-color-output)
>     * [All hooks: Log levels](#all-hooks-log-levels)
>     * [Many hooks: Parallelism](#many-hooks-parallelism)
>     * [checkov (deprecated) and terraform\_checkov](#checkov-deprecated-and-terraform_checkov)
>     * [infracost\_breakdown](#infracost_breakdown)
>     * [terraform\_docs](#terraform_docs)
>     * [terraform\_docs\_replace (deprecated)](#terraform_docs_replace-deprecated)
>     * [terraform\_fmt](#terraform_fmt)
>     * [terraform\_providers\_lock](#terraform_providers_lock)
>     * [terraform\_tflint](#terraform_tflint)
>     * [terraform\_tfsec (deprecated)](#terraform_tfsec-deprecated)
>     * [terraform\_trivy](#terraform_trivy)
>     * [terraform\_validate](#terraform_validate)
>     * [terraform\_wrapper\_module\_for\_each](#terraform_wrapper_module_for_each)
>     * [terrascan](#terrascan)
>     * [tfupdate](#tfupdate)
>     * [terragrunt\_providers\_lock](#terragrunt_providers_lock)
>   * [Docker Usage](#docker-usage)
>     * [File Permissions](#file-permissions)
>     * [Download Terraform modules from private GitHub repositories](#download-terraform-modules-from-private-github-repositories)
>   * [Github Actions](#github-actions)
>   * [Authors](#authors)
>   * [License](#license)
>     * [Additional information for users from Russia and Belarus](#additional-information-for-users-from-russia-and-belarus)

Reviewer: One last fix. harold-pain.jpg
```suggestion
* [Sponsors](#sponsors)
* [Table of content](#table-of-content)
* [How to install](#how-to-install)
  * [1. Install dependencies](#1-install-dependencies)
  * [2. Install the pre-commit hook globally](#2-install-the-pre-commit-hook-globally)
  * [3. Add configs and hooks](#3-add-configs-and-hooks)
  * [4. Run](#4-run)
* [Available Hooks](#available-hooks)
* [Hooks usage notes and examples](#hooks-usage-notes-and-examples)
  * [Known limitations](#known-limitations)
  * [All hooks: Usage of environment variables in `--args`](#all-hooks-usage-of-environment-variables-in---args)
  * [All hooks: Set env vars inside hook at runtime](#all-hooks-set-env-vars-inside-hook-at-runtime)
  * [All hooks: Disable color output](#all-hooks-disable-color-output)
  * [All hooks: Log levels](#all-hooks-log-levels)
  * [Many hooks: Parallelism](#many-hooks-parallelism)
  * [checkov (deprecated) and terraform\_checkov](#checkov-deprecated-and-terraform_checkov)
  * [infracost\_breakdown](#infracost_breakdown)
  * [terraform\_docs](#terraform_docs)
  * [terraform\_docs\_replace (deprecated)](#terraform_docs_replace-deprecated)
  * [terraform\_fmt](#terraform_fmt)
  * [terraform\_providers\_lock](#terraform_providers_lock)
  * [terraform\_tflint](#terraform_tflint)
  * [terraform\_tfsec (deprecated)](#terraform_tfsec-deprecated)
  * [terraform\_trivy](#terraform_trivy)
  * [terraform\_validate](#terraform_validate)
  * [terraform\_wrapper\_module\_for\_each](#terraform_wrapper_module_for_each)
  * [terrascan](#terrascan)
  * [tfupdate](#tfupdate)
  * [terragrunt\_providers\_lock](#terragrunt_providers_lock)
* [Docker Usage](#docker-usage)
  * [File Permissions](#file-permissions)
  * [Download Terraform modules from private GitHub repositories](#download-terraform-modules-from-private-github-repositories)
* [Github Actions](#github-actions)
* [Authors](#authors)
* [License](#license)
  * [Additional information for users from Russia and Belarus](#additional-information-for-users-from-russia-and-belarus)
```

Author: no a user fork, so option is not available

**Build from scratch**:

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > To build image you need to have [`docker buildx`](https://docs.docker.com/build/install-buildx/) enabled as default builder.

Reviewer: Oh no, your IDE does not respect markdown syntax...

Please revert "formatter" changes back

Author: Don't see why these spaces matter.

Reviewer 2: They designate linebreak in markdown.

docker run --rm -e "USERID=$(id -u):$(id -g)" -v ~/.netrc:/root/.netrc -v $(pwd):/lint -w /lint ghcr.io/antonbabenko/pre-commit-terraform:latest run -a
```

## Github Actions

You can use this hook in your GitHub Actions workflow togehther with [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com). To easy up dependency management, you can use the managed [docker image](#docker-usage) within your workflow. Make sure to set the image tag to the version you want to use.

In this repository's pre-commit [workflow file](.github/workflows/pre-commit.yml) we also check the container image with pre-commit.

> Here is another more simple example which includes caching of pre-commit dependencies and uses the `pre-commit` command to run the checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is another example that includes caching of pre-commit dependencies and uses the `pre-commit` command to run the checks (but fixes will not push back to your branch):
```

Reviewer 2: @MaxymVlasov : _but fixes will be not automatically pushed back to your branch_ (not sure about the gist of `when` clause though)

Author: I don't see, where the original workflow pushes changes found by pre-commit? Or do you want to be just very specific?

Reviewer: I hope this PR and screencast will help
https://github.com/antonbabenko/pre-commit-terraform/pull/658
[Screencast from 15.04.24 18:59:50.webm](https://github.com/antonbabenko/pre-commit-terraform/assets/11096782/9964f786-dca9-4ba8-89ab-15736ca2bbb2)

Reviewer: https://github.com/antonbabenko/pre-commit-terraform/blob/42919f3926f26453e44e11990c08f038edc521b7/.github/workflows/pre-commit.yaml#L42-L56

There 2 pre-commit runs.
The first one, is able to push fixes. second-one - not. The difference in availability of  `GITHUB_TOKEN`.

That's done in this way because otherwise, hooks without fixes will produce exit code 1, and that stops from pushing fixed to the branch.

I can say GHA "ignore exit code 1", and fixes will be successfully pushed, but then if something will be detected by hooks that have no autofixes - there will be no notification about that, except inside logs in "successfully done" GHA

Reviewer: Still no `hadolint` dependency inside image. It will check nothing from `pre-commit-hooks` (all of them, which we use here have autofixes) nor pre-commit-terraform repo hooks (as this repo doesn't include any tf code for testing).

If you'd like to make useful tests, check #373.
